##############################
Playtest Rules
##############################

These are the general rules for Pathfinder Society Playtests. Each playtest may have specific rules, see the playtest announcements for specific rules.

***********************************
Playtest Period
***********************************

Each playtest runs for a specified period. Once this period has expired, players can no longer use the options being playtested until their publication in a future Pathfinder product.

***********************************
Playtest Characters
***********************************

Playtest options can be accessed by creating a custom character using the rules presented in the playtest document. This character functions as a pregenerated character.

Creating a playtest character 
====================================
Depending on the tier of the scenario, the player can use a 1st-, 3rd-, or 5th-level character created using the eligible playtest options and the following guidelines.

  1st Level 
    The character can be made using the character creation rules presented in the Pathfinder Core Rulebook and the :ref:`Character Creation` Appendix of this guide.
  3rd Level 
    This character follows the same rules as above, except that instead of 15 gp starting gold, they can select one 2nd-level and two 1st-level permanent items. In addition, the player can spend up to 25 gp on other available equipment.
  5th Level 
    This character follows the same rules as above, except that instead of 15 gp starting gold, they can select one 4th-level, two 3rd-level, one 2nd-level, and two 1st-level permanent items. In addition, the player can spend up to 50 gp on other available equipment.

The Guidelines for Treasure for New Characters and Choosing Items on pages 510-511 of the `Pathfinder Core Rulebook <http://2e.aonprd.com/Rules.aspx?ID=587>`_ apply to these pre-gen equipment choices.

  Credit
    Choose which of your characters will receive the credit at the beginning of the adventure. The credit earned for playing a playtest character follows the same rules and guidelines as applying credit for a pregenerated character, presented in the Applying Credit section of the Player Basics page of the Guide to Organized Play: Pathfinder Society.

  Boons and Other Character Options 
    In order for the playtest character to take a character option that would normally require a boon, that playtest character must have all of their credit assigned to a character number that has purchased that boon.

***********************************
GM Opt-In
***********************************

Because playtest use additional rules elements that some GMs may not be comfortable with, each GM must opt-in for playtest characters to be used at their tables. Please make sure that you consult the GM prior to game!

***********************************
Current and Past Playtests
***********************************

This list contains all previous play tests. Make sure to check the dates to see if a playtest is still ongoing.

  `Gunslinger and Inventor <https://paizo.com/community/blog/v5748dyo6shjb>`_ – January 5 to February 5, 2021
    This playtest includes the gunslinger and inventor classes as outlined in the Guns & Gears playtest. The character must take a playtest class, and can not take archetypes.
