##############################
Volunteer Coordinators
##############################

Volunteers, collectively known as Venture-Officers, receive ranks based on their duties and geographical areas of responsibility. The top level of volunteers, Regional Venture-Coordinators, looks after geographical areas. Under them are Venture-Captains, responsible for countries, states, or metropolitan areas. Their right hands, the Venture-Lieutenants, assist in the area’s coordination efforts, sometimes belonging to the region and other times being assigned to a city or town. The lowest level, Venture-Agents, coordinate activities in one location, such as a game store, a school, a community center, or a military instillation.

Anyone may join the Organized Play Foundation as a volunteer. A list of recommended tasks and benefits for each level of Venture-Officer rank is available from the link below. If you read the Venture-Officer descriptions and are interested in joining the team, email the Regional Venture-Officer responsible for your location. Players looking for organized play activities in a particular area may either search the events listing at paizo.com/organizedplay/events or email the Regional Venture-Coordinator for the area of interest from the list linked below.

*********************
Venture-Officer Ranks
*********************

Regional Venture-Coordinator (RVC)
====================================

Services: 

- Act as the top authority regarding community building, responsible for oversight of all Venture-Coordinators in the region. 
- Responsible for the promotion/demotion of all Venture-Captains and any Venture-Lieutenants/Venture-Agents that may report directly to them. 
- Maintain a current roster of Venture-Officers (VOs) in the region. 
- Identify potential VOs and consider them for positions within the Venture-Officer organization. 
- Be an active participant in the Regional Venture-Coordinator Council, responsible for community development and advising the Organized Play Manager (OPM). 
- Be familiar with regional Organized Play customs such as table variations and player travel patterns and identify them to the OPM. 
- Acknowledge different styles of role-play and their presence in the Organized Play Foundation (OPF). Schedule games catering to a variety of play styles, based on the needs and desires of the community. 
- Schedule games catering to a variety of play styles, based on the needs and desires of the community. 
- Act as the third step in the conflict-resolution process, working with VCs to resolve community issues utilizing established guidelines. Communicate any issue that cannot be resolved to the OPM up channel. 
- Attend teleconferences with the OPM as requested. 
- Meet with VCs on an as-needed basis, at least quarterly, to provide mentoring in running Organized Play activities, discuss local issues, and identify growth areas. Online/telephone meetings count for this requirement. 
- Compile information from VC reports and submit this information to the OPM on a quarterly basis due the last Thursday of April/July/October/January. 
- Find conventions within the region which would benefit from a Paizo staff presence and submit this information to the OPM by June to facilitate travel schedule planning. 
- Ensure every Venture-Captain maintains a searchable online presence for their area. 
- Attend one OPF-designated convention a year (any of the PaizoCons, Origins, Gen Con, UK Games Expo, or PAX Unplugged). The OPM may waive this requirement on a case-by-case basis upon receipt of emailed waiver request. 
- Coordinate Organized Play activities at regional premier and premier plus conventions. This can be in person or by mentoring area Venture-Officers through the planning and organizational processes. 
- Assist GMs in achieving recognition requirements, including adjudication game(s) and evaluations. Ensure GMs receive feedback after the game and report the results to the OPM via applicable forms. 
- Provide historical context of the Organized Play campaign to the OPM. 

Benefits:

- Free PDFs of Paizo products added to user account downloads on paizo.com. 
- Credit of $50 on paizo.com per qualifying convention run, maximum of $100 per calendar year. 
- A status bonus toward qualifying for tier rewards at PaizoCon and Gen Con (bonus does not apply to convention housing benefits, if applicable). 
- Invitation to a regional coordinators’ dinner at PaizoCon and Gen Con. 
- Treated as 2 stars higher for qualification to run Exclusive events. 
- Regional Venture-Coordinator + region tag that displays when posting in the paizo.com forums. 
- Access to the Venture-Officer communication tools. 
- Custom paizo.com avatar image. 

enture-Captain (VC)
===================

Services:

- Oversight authority of Venture-Lieutenants (VLs) as delegated by the Regional Venture-Coordinator to whom they report.
- Responsible for the promotion/demotion of any Venture-Lieutenants and any Venture-Agents that report directly to them. 
- Maintain a current roster of volunteer GMs, organizers, and store/community contacts in the assigned region. 
- Identify potential VOs and consider them for positions within the Venture-Officer organization. 
- Be familiar with local game stores or community organizations where Organized Play activities are conducted. Work with them to register as retailers on paizo.com/retailers. 
- Acknowledge different styles of role-play and their presence in the Organized Play Foundation. Schedule games catering to a variety of play styles, based on the needs and desires of the community. 
- Schedule games catering to a variety of play styles based on the needs and desires of the community. 
- Act as the second step in the conflict-resolution process, working with Venture-Lieutenants to resolve community issues utilizing established guidelines.
- Communicate any issue that cannot be resolved to the RVC up channel. 
- Attend teleconferences with Regional Venture-Coordinator as requested. 
- Meet with VLs on an as needed basis, at least quarterly, to provide mentoring in running Organized Play activities, discuss local issues, and identify growth areas. Online/telephone meetings count for this requirement. 
- Compile information from VL/VA reports and submit this information to RVC on a quarterly basis in the manner requested by the RVC. These reports are due the third Thursday of April/July/October/January. 
- Compile a list of all conventions with Organized Play activities in the community. Provide this list to RVC on a quarterly basis to aid in planning. 
- Maintain a searchable online presence for the area This can be forums, social media, websites, or scheduling apps. 
- Work with event organizers in the geographical area to submit support requests within established time frames using online forms. Follow up with event organizers to ensure filing of after-action reports within one week of convention end. 
- Attend one OPF designated convention a year (any of the PaizoCons, Origins, Gen Con, UK Games Expo, or PAX Unplugged). The OPM may waive this requirement on a case-by-case basis upon receipt of emailed waiver request. 
- GM one or more blocks of Organized Play events at two different conventions a year. These conventions do not need to be in the home region of the Venture-Officer. 
- Assist GMs in achieving recognition requirements, including adjudication game(s) and evaluations. Ensure GMs get feedback after the game and report the results to the OPM via applicable forms. 
- Choose an activity path and complete the associated tasks:
- Take the lead organizing Organized Play activities at two or more conventions a year. Conventions must qualify for event support based on established criteria. These conventions do not need to be in the local community. 
- Actively participate in a Task Force as created by the OPM. Activity requirements are set by the Task Force Chair /OPM and will be clearly communicated to Task Force members. 
- Run an additional 6 games per quarter in the local community. 
- Coordinate a Special Project with the OPM. 
- Translate Organized Play documents if translations are not already provided by Paizo-licensed translators. 
- Coordinate one session a month at a public venue where any may attend. This may include running the sessions if no other GMs are available. 
- Ensure games run at conventions are reported on paizo.com. 

Benefits: 

- Free PDFs of Paizo products added to user account downloads on paizo.com. 
- Credit of $50 on paizo.com per qualifying convention ran, maximum of $100 per calendar year. 
- A status bonus toward qualifying for tier rewards at PaizoCon and Gen Con (bonus does not apply to convention housing benefits, if applicable). 
- Invitation to a regional coordinators dinner at PaizoCon and Gen Con. 
- Treated as 2 stars higher for qualification to run Exclusive events. 
- Venture-Captain + region tag that displays when posting in the Organized Play forums. 
- Access to the Venture-Officer communication tools. 

Venture-Lieutenants (VL)
=========================

Services:

- Oversight authority of Venture-Agents as delegated by the Venture-Captain to whom they report. 
- Responsible for the promotion/demotion of all Venture-Agents that report directly to them. 
- Maintain a current roster of volunteer GMs, organizers, and store/community contacts and supply this to the reporting VC. 
- Identify potential VOs and consider them for positions within the Venture-Officer organization. 
- In cases where you are a location liaison, build a positive rapport with the location group leadership. 
- Acknowledge different styles of role-play and their presence in the Organized Play Foundation. Schedule games catering to a variety of play styles, based on the needs and desires of the community. 
- Schedule games catering to a variety of play styles, based on the needs and desires of the community. 
- Act as the first step in the conflict-resolution process, working with Venture-Agents and Location Operators to resolve community issues utilizing established guidelines. Communicate any issue that cannot be resolved to the area VC up channel . 
- Meet with the regional VC on an as needed basis, at least quarterly. Online/telephone meetings count for this requirement. 
- Meet with VAs on an as needed basis, at least quarterly, to provide mentoring in running Organized Play activities, discuss local issues, and identify growth areas. Online/telephone meetings count for this requirement. 
- Compile information from VA reports and submit this information to regional VC on a quarterly in the manner requested by the VC. These reports are due the second Thursday of April/July/October/January. 
- Support the regional VC in maintaining a searchable online presence for the local area. 
- GM one or more blocks of Organized Play events at two different conventions a year. These conventions do not need to be in the home region of the Venture-Officer. 
- Choose an activity path and complete the associated tasks: •
- Take the lead organizing Organized Play activities at two or more conventions a year. Conventions must qualify for event support based on established criteria. These conventions do not need to be in the local community. 
- Actively participate in a Task Force as created by the OPM. Activity requirements are set by the Task Force Chair/OPM and will be clearly communicated to task force members. 
- Run an additional 6 games per quarter in the local community. 
- Coordinate two sessions a month at a public venue where any may attend. This may include running the sessions, if no other GMs are available. 
- Ensure organizers report games run at supervised locations on paizo.com. 

Benefits: 

- Free PDFs of Paizo Organized Play products added to user account downloads on paizo.com. 
- Credit of $50 on paizo.com per qualifying convention ran, maximum of $50 per calendar year. 
- Treated as 1 star higher for qualification to run Exclusive events. 
- Venture-Lieutenant + region tag that displays when posting in the Organized Play forums. 
- Access to the Venture-Officer communication tools. 

Venture-Agents (VA)
====================

Services:

- Ensure contact information registered the reporting Venture-Lieutenant is current. Maintain a current roster of volunteer GMs, organizers, and store/community contacts and supply this to the regional VC. 
- Maintain a current roster of volunteer GMs and location contacts and supply this to the reporting VL. 
- Build a positive rapport with the location group leadership. 
- Encourage stores to register as retailers on paizo.com/retailers. 
- Acknowledge different styles of role-play and their presence in the Organized Play Foundation. Schedule games catering to a variety of play styles, based on the needs and desires of the local community. 
- Schedule games catering to a variety of play styles, based on the needs and desires of the community. 
- Identify any issues to regional VL, so that they may begin the conflict resolution process. • Meet with the regional VL on an as needed basis, at least quarterly. Online/telephone meetings count for this requirement. 
- Submit monthly status reports to the regional VL including the number/type of sessions ran, current numbers of players/GMs, and other requested metrics. These reports are due the first Thursday of April/July/October/January. 
- Support the regional VC in maintaining a searchable online presence for the local area with current game information.
- Coordinate two sessions a month at the location where you coordinate games. Run one of the sessions, but the other can be ran by any area GM. 
- Ensure organizers report games run at supervised locations on paizo.com. 

Benefits

- Free PDFs of Paizo Organized Play products added to user account downloads on paizo.com. 
- Venture-Agent + region tag that displays when posting in the Organized Play forums. 
- Access to the Venture-Officer communication tools.

***************************
Venture-Officer Task Forces
***************************

  Additional Resources (AR) Task Force
    **Goals**: Provide feedback to campaign leadership on sanctioning rules for both Pathfinder and Starfinder.

    **Chair**: Alex Lenz

  FAQ Task Force
    **Goals**: Identify community issues and rules questions; present them to OPF leadership with guidance and context for clarification.

    **Chair**: TBD
  
  Guide to Organized Play Task Force
    **Goals**: Convert and maintain the Guides to Organized Play on the OPF website.

    **Chair**: Jared Thaler

  Online Integration Task Force
    **Goals**: Collect and create tools to facilitate online play and conventions; determine best practices for online events.

    **Chair**: TBD

  OPF Website Task Force
    **Goals**: Create and maintain the Organized Play Foundation website via WordPress.

    **Chair**: TBD

  Program Documentation Task Force
    **Goals**: Work closely with VO Handbook Task Force to create documentation for workflow processes (VO onboarding, convention support requests, etc)

    **Chair**: TBD

  Program Onboarding Task Force
    **Goals**: Streamline onboarding new players and GMs; collect and create resources for players new to roleplaying games, Pathfinder and Starfinder, and Organized Play.

    **Chair**: TBD

  VO Handbook Task Force
    **Goals**: Generate standardized documentation of VO processes at every level, leaving room for regions to add their own variations and guidelines.

    **Chair**: TBD

**************************************
List of Regional Venture-Coordinators
**************************************

Go to the Paizo site as I am republishing this.
